Let's start with redirecting the users. They should be redirected
if they do login or if they do logout.
Now the question of course is where do we redirect to and where do we execute that redirection logic?
Now for redirecting, the auth service is a great place because there we do both, logging in and logging
out.
So to redirect the user, I will have to inject the @angular/router here,
so add a new argument to the constructor which is of type router and router is an object or a class
imported from @angular/router. With that import added
and with that injection added here in the constructor, we can use it in login, here in the subscribe
method when we know that we have a valid token. There at the very end,
I want to reach out to my router and call the navigate method
and I want to navigate back to the home page.
You can of course navigate anywhere but I guess this makes sense away from the login page.
I also want to navigate there
if we do logout. There once we cleared everything, I want to leave the page on which I am and go back
to the home page.
So that's a very simple logic but it should work.
If we now save this and I do go to login page after this reloaded, I can enter my credentials here and
I am redirected
and if I go to the new post page and I click logout, I'm also redirected back to the starting page,
so that's great.
By the way, one other thing you might notice is that we have to wait a very short time span if I click login,
the time it takes for us to send that request and validate the user on the server. It would be nice to show
a spinner there,
that's just a minor thing but I want to add such spinners to the login and the sign-up components, maybe
instead of the button. We of course already have the spinner component included in the app, so we can
simply add mat-spinner here
below the button in the sign-up component and also in the login component and I want to show
it instead of the button.
For that, we need to know if we are loading or not.
Now we got an isLoading property in both components already,
we just need to set it when we are loading. So in onSignup, I will set isLoading to true and the same in
onLogin. In both places, I set isLoading to true
and in the templates, I can then use it.
I want to hide that button if we are loading and on the same hand,
I want to show the spinner then,
so if we're loading, hide the button and therefore of course the checks should be opposite,
if we are not loading, it should be shown and therefore it's hidden
if we are loading and the spinner should only be shown if we are loading. And in the sign-up component,
in the template there, it's the same logic. Spinner will be shown if we are loading, sign-up button that will
be shown if we are not loading, implemented by adding the exclamation mark. With that,
now we can go to the login page and there if I do you enter my credentials, we see that spinner
for a short time span
at least. Now I just recognized I already did have a spinner of course here, so we can remove that bottommost
spinner,
the thing I was missing is changing that isLoading value but I already had the spinners in place.
So let's update the templates to remove the bottommost spinner
and with that if I go back, we again should be already having a spinner, yes, looking good.
So we get that spinner already and we are redirecting,
that's great.
Next step is to guard routes because now I'm logged out and I can still access the new posts page by
typing in /create or for example, I can edit a post by typing in edit and then some post ID and
it will also still load the post page.
Well turns out that this was a post which doesn't exist anymore but it would work for a valid ID.
So that is something I will edit in the next video.